# The Ultimate Free Machine Learning Development Stack
### 4 tools, 0 dollars, everything you'll need

Keeping up with Data Science's intense pace of innovation is difficult for all of us. This problem is only compounded with the lose of a job, which comes with the loss of business problems to apply data science and machine learning to as well as the enterprise development tools ultilized in order to do so. However, the field continues to progress. Regardless of your current professional situation, there's no such thing as staying still. If you are a machine learing developer or data scientist in the unfortuante position to have lost your job during the pandemic but are not working to improve your skills in these areas, you are absolutely getting passed by.
I've spent the past 3 years helping Data Scientists and Developers navigate the vast ecosystem of cloud and open source machine learning development tools, and wanted to recommend a workflow that enables end-to-end machine learning with a couple of services, all of which are free, to help keep skills sharp.

## Object Storage 
Object storage is critcal to machine learning development, and provides a place to store training, test, and validation data sets as well as pretrained and fine-tuned models. It's also a huge revenue generator for cloud companies, as AWS' S3 is reported by numerous sources as the most popular service for the multi, multi billion dollar organization, so finding free and unlimited cloud object storage is quite difficult, but not impossible. 

Algorithmia is a serverless Machine Learning deployment platform (more on deploying models below). There are a number of utilites that Algorimthmia provides in order to facilitate the deployment of models, including free object storage. According to their docs, "Algorithmia’s Data Sources make it easy to host your data files on the Algorithmia platform for free, while our Data API makes it a cinch to work with your hosted data." Their Data API is available in Python and has a getFile()/putFile() structure that makes it easy to download and upload training/testing/validataion data sets as well as pretrained and fine-tuned models. Data collections can be made public, shared between teams, or private, and is free to store and access.

## Model Development and Training
There are a number of free, hosted Jupyter enviroments that can help in developing machine learning models. My favorite is Google Colab. Colab only requires a Google account to use and provides free access to GPUs, even including NVIDIA V100's if you are lucky. It has very tight and very easy to use integrations with both GitHub and Weights and Biases (more on Weights and Biases later). I have prepared a notebook hosted on Colab as an introduction to the service and others mentioned in this article. 

## Hyperparameter Optimization and Monitoring
Hyperparameter Optimzation allows developers to vary aspects of a model in order to tune its training performance. Weights and Biases' Sweeps libary automates hyperparameter optimization to explore a space of possible models. Sweeps provides a number of great features in additon to being a free service, including easy integration, early termination of poorly performing training sessions, and a variety of search strategies. Sweeps also decouples optimization from model training via their central sweep server, so multiple workers can iterated through a search space asynchronously and in parallel. Weights and Biases automatically logs model metrics as well, which can be used with or without hyperparameter optimization to easily monitor and visualize model training processes. 


## Model Libraries and Deployment
Model registries, repositories, and libraries help fast track end-to-end machine learning development by provided pretrained models and other utilites that can be fine-tuned towards a specific task. Hugging Face's Transformers library provides a great set of models and preprocessing tokenizers for use in natural language processing. State-of-the-art performance can be acheived in a number of NLP tasks with Transformers in as few as two lines of code, or completely customizable into larger machine learning pipelines with TFTrainer and PyTorch Lightening support.

Another great resource for using pretrained models is coming from the group already mentioned as a provider of free Object Storage, Algorithmia. They provide functionality to use deployed machine learning models, upload your own for inference, or to pipeline together in a fully managed, serverless enviroment that can used across programming languages. Using deployed models on Algorithmia is not technically free, it costs 1 cent per 100 seconds of compute time, but accounts are given 5,000 free seconds of compute time a month, which I've found to be more than enough for personal use. 

## Summary
Algorithmia, Google Colab, Hugging Face, and Weights and Biases together can form a powerful combination in practicing end-to-end machine learning. A demonstration of all these tools working in concert can be found above in the model training and developement secion as well as right here. If you have lost your job recently there are a number of resources that can provide assistance, including Open Data Science's very own AI+, which provides career services and job placement to Data Scientists and Engineers.
